So John, you will be playing the role of Adam Severt who is a lawyer for the Department of justice. So in this scenario, what's his background? What accent should I use? Is he southern? Is he from alaska. I want to really get into this. He's got a flat Ohio accent. Hi and welcome to Geek. I'm GeekWire. Co founder Todd Bishop. And I'm GeekWire co founder John Cook. We are coming to you from Seattle where we get to report each day on what's happening around us in technology, business and innovation. What happens here matters everywhere. And every week on this show we talk about some of the most interesting stories in the news. Coming up later on, a dramatic reenactment here in the GeekWire studios of Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella's testimony in the Google antitrust case in Washington DC. As read by Tod Bishop and John Cook. Yes. What role are you playing? I'm going to play Sachez. Is that okay? What am I doing? You're going to be a couple of different lawyers. Okay. I can handle know that's funny because there was no live stream and there's no audio from the courtroom. However, I was able to get a hold of the transcripts, which we can at least in part reenact. And I picked a couple of very telling passages that we'll have later on. I'm going to have to go back to my thespian days here. Were you in theater? I was musical theater. And speaking of Microsoft, I don't know if we want to go there. Yeah, it's okay. But you know the history, it ties into Microsoft. My classmate as I knew him, Judd Altoff, a very senior executive, runs essentially the sales organization at Microsoft. He was in my high school class in Worcester, Ohio and he was actually a fantastic thespian. Well, we could have gotten him in here to read. That would have been awesome. I don't think that would go over as well. All right, well, coming up later on, stick around for that. Clearly with this build up you're going to want to wait. I'm excited. But first, the GeekWire Summit is coming up on October 19. That is less than two weeks away. For those who have not been following this, this is a half day conference this year focused on the realities of AI. AI gets real as we're calling it, and we are very excited to be hosting this at an iconic Seattle venue, the former Cinerama movie theater in Seattle. And the event is going to be really cool. We've got some great panels. We've got a surprise movie in the evening. So if you have not signed up yet, be sure to do that soon. You can go to GeekWire.com slash summit. John, you've been working hard on this agenda. What are you most looking forward to? Well, of course the chocolate popcorn. Right. That's the big selling point on the event. And the spicy insights from the panel. The spicy insights from the yes, yes. No. We've got a great lineup of speakers, a lot of great leaders from the technology industry, from venture capital, entrepreneurship, folks from Microsoft, GitHub Redfin, CTO, Bridget Fry. So we got a real nice mix of guests who are going to be sharing insights across the spectrum of what's happening in AI. Absolutely. Others include David Shim, the CEO at Read AI, who is one of the leaders not only in the technology, but the business of artificial intelligence. Here locally, Byron Boots, the co founder and CEO of Overland AI Real World Insights. And that's really going to be the focus here. We're looking forward to seeing everybody out on October 19 at the GeekWire Summit. And again, you can check that out@geekwire.com. Summit. All right, we're going to take a quick break here, John. When we come back, a dramatic reenactment of Satya Nadella speaking in the Google anti papers. Ready here. All right, we'll be right back. Without further ado, John, I picked a couple of segments of this transcript, and now I have not read any of this. It's going to be a cold read. Cold read at the table read. Cold table read. So this first passage is a long one, but it is meaty, and it is the one that got the most attention in the news. So you're not just going to be hearing the sound bites. You'll be hearing all of the context around some of the things that came out in the news, which I think is telling in an illuminating way. So, John, you will be playing the role of Adam Severt, who is a lawyer for the Department of justice. So in this scenario, what's his background? What accent should I use? Is he southern? Is he from alaska. I want to really get into this. He's got a flat Ohio accent. Perfect. He went to the Ohio State University, actually. I'm going to look him up where he went. She's really deep research. Okay. How do you spell his last name? S-E-V-E-R-T. Emory University. That's Georgia. Okay. Don't do it. Emory University School of Law. All right. I'm not going to put it all right, John. So this comes in the middle of a long discussion about search engine defaults and browsers and mobile phones and whether Bing or Google is the default. John, you are playing the part of the Justice Department lawyer. I'm playing the part of Satya Nadella and apologies. Satya, go ahead. When you say distribution, do you mean defaults? Defaults. And why is that the type of distribution that you've been focused on? I mean, it's the mechanism that fundamentally can change this entire notion that users have choice and they go from one website to one website or one search into one search. It's completely bogus. There's. Defaults the only thing that matters in terms of changing search behavior. And at this point, in fact, it's even more true. Right. You get up in the morning, you brush your teeth and you search on Google. And so therefore, with that level of habit forming, the only way to change is by changing defaults. And is there a difference between defaults on desktop versus mobile? The desktop, it ironically, turns out that Windows is the most open platform today because anyone can distribute anything on Windows, they don't need to go to Microsoft. And so, yes, we do have defaults of ours, but it doesn't require any coordination with Microsoft to distribute a complete alternate player, which includes the browser as well. So changing defaults today is easiest on Windows, toughest on mobile platforms because they're all locked up. They're all locked up on the browser. That is allowed. They're locked up with app store access. So there are many, many sort of friction points on mobile operating systems. And you made a statement that Windows is the most open platform today. What did you mean by that? Here's the thought experiment, to ask ourselves today and say, would Google even exist if Windows had iOS like restrictions on how things get distributed. Google exists because of two things. One is because of our consent decree where we had to put a lot of limits on what we could distribute and not distribute by default. And second, because the fact that you could distribute anything you wanted on Windows and it's still the case, right? It's not just Google take. The largest marketplace on Windows happens to be not from Microsoft, it's Steam. And so it's an open platform on which anybody can distribute anything. And that is a great advantage for somebody trying to build a new business. Okay, end scene. Okay, so the point that he's trying to make here, and perhaps this dramatic reading, was less compelling than I envisioned it when I was reading it on the page. However, the point that he's making is, hey, Google controls in a variety of ways the access of a competitor like Microsoft to these mobile platforms. It has a deal with Apple on iOS and it has, of course, control of Android because it's the one that puts Android out. But Microsoft isn't doing that. It opened up the door to Google to be successful on Windows. And so Google's response to all of this is, wait a second, this is not about access, it's about quality. If they make Bing better than Google, then users will switch because look at what happened on Windows. Or they could just pay Apple more money to get Bing distributed instead of Google distributed. Perfect segue to our second reading, and I will say that Microsoft's point on all of this is one of the reasons that their product is not as good as Google is that they don't have the data. They don't? Have the signals to improve their search results on mobile in particular, where if they had the higher market share, they'd be able to deliver better search results. And Microsoft's contention is that Google is effectively locking Bing out of that through these various tactics to protect its monopoly. Since this was my first read through on this and just hearing Satya's comments for the first time, is he referencing the antitrust case against Microsoft here directly? Yes, that there were limits put onto Microsoft that has made for this more open environment and a more competitive environment as a result. So he's actually celebrating the fact that or he's using it in his defense at least, to say that we went through this antitrust struggle that created a better ecosystem as a result. Which is a pretty interesting argument to make given all the history between Microsoft and the antitrust division. I would put it a different way. I think he would argue that Windows has always been an open platform where somebody could come on and distribute any software that they effectively wanted to as long as it was compatible with the operating system. The consent decree that Microsoft reached where they were bundling internet Explorer and other programs with Windows prevented Microsoft from employing some of the same tactics that Google might have. It couldn't lock Google out in the same it's confusing in this instance with the Google Apple example because you're talking about two different companies versus in the case of where Microsoft was previously, it was one company bundling everything together, right? And that's on iOS you're talking about where it's confusing because it's Apple and Google. Right. But then you've got Google with Android where they effectively have control over the defaults not only on Google handhelds, but, Microsoft says, by twisting the arm of people like Samsung and threatening, for example, to, in Microsoft's view, potentially withhold the Play Store. The Google Play store from Samsung devices. If, for example, Samsung doesn't offer Google search as the default on phones. Now, I don't know that that specifically is something that Google has done, but Microsoft's point is, hey, that's the threat that is effectively hanging over Samsung's head. If they were to go against Google and switch to Bing, they would be on the outs with Google and not have access to the things in Android that they might want to be successful on that platform. Interesting. So this part is shorter and a little less consequential. But I appreciated it because it's a point of contention between the Google lawyer who John You will be representing and now who am I in this instance? This is John Schmidtline Spelling, please. S-C-H-M-I-D-T-L-E-I-N. He's a lawyer with Williams and Conley in Washington, D. C. Representing Google. So obviously this is on Cross, as they say. So again, I'll play Satya Nadella and this is in the context of Microsoft's negotiations with Apple attempting to replace Google as the default search engine on iOS, Satya says. So the point I was making to Apple, which by the way is the only reason why they kept engaging is with the Apple brand. It was not going to be called Bing. We had all kinds of strategic flexibility. It was going to be just like Apple Maps. That was the idea. This was not about trying to put Bing and the Bing brand front and center. Oh, I see, you're going to hide the Bing brand. Yeah, of course. We were going to take whatever Apple felt was their chance as a success with the technology. So you were going to try to hide the Bing brand behind the Apple brand and fool all the Google users into staying with Bing instead of switching back to Google, which is what they did on Windows in droves, right? That is not what I said. Jerk. That was implied, that last part. So this gets to the heart of Google's argument which is that Google is successful because its search engine is good and Bing is not successful in spite of Microsoft's strengths on Windows because Bing sucks. That is the nutshell of this argument. And Microsoft says, well yeah, Bing is not good because we don't have the traffic, we don't have the volume to make it good. And the reason we don't have the traffic and the volume is because Google is leveraging its monopoly power to continue its dominance of the market. Well, Google also pays Apple, yes, Microsoft a lot of money. Microsoft was willing to make a bunch of concessions and make it so. Microsoft even lost money on it. I mean, the figures they're talking about are in the ten to $15 billion a year range. And there was a story out that Microsoft also considered selling Bing to Apple and that was according to a transcript of some testimony from Apple's head of machine learning that was unsealed in the Google antitrust case. So Microsoft has clearly tried a bunch of different things here to figure out how to head off Google and search. And of course the irony is that Microsoft is the company that was the original monopoly in tech. In many ways that's where it's kind of hard to stomach all of this. These are gigantic companies with massive fiefdoms all to themselves that are fighting over power. And it's like at the end of the day, who cares? I mean, who cares who has this power or not? I guess Microsoft would claim that they would be a more open system or it would be more competitive in some way, but it would still be Microsoft controlled. I would think. So. I'm like Microsoft wants a piece of it or are they saying that it would be more open if Microsoft had a piece of it? I think Microsoft is arguing against Google here in its own interest, but also as a proxy in its mind for others who might want to compete with Google but wouldn't have a chance. Not even the chance that Microsoft has. Nowhere close to the chance that Microsoft has to actually compete. It makes total sense that you would look at this and say, really? Microsoft stopped whining. I mean, that's really a lot of the sentiment that's out there. At the same time, I think it's important for regulators to look at companies that have giant positions in any market and say, are they maintaining those positions unlawfully? And in this case, it happens to be that the most credible rival is another tech giant with a tiny little search engine. So that's what's going on here. By the way. There was also a long discussion as part of Satya Nadella's testimony about the future of AI and his concerns that Google could lock up publishers and others with the data needed to train large language models into exclusive deals. That would preclude Microsoft and others from getting access to the kinds of underlying data that they would need to create effective models of their own. You can read more about that in the related post on this episode on GeekWire.com. Coming up after the break, my latest experiment in generative. AI channeling someone who hasn't been around for 20 years and the reaction it got online technology moves fast. I need to move faster. WGU's competency based education puts me in control of how fast I move through my It degree program. I can accelerate my program by applying what I already know to my courses and focusing on the things I need to learn. Earn a respected, accredited degree that propels your career in the It field. Learn more at WGU.edu backslash itsertsencluded welcome back. It's Todd Bishop with John Cook. When I was growing up in Northern California, I read a lot of Herb Kane. Was there somebody similar to that? Like a daily three dot newspaper columnist in Ohio? Not so. I certainly was familiar with Herb Kane. Yeah. Loved the approach and style up here in the Pacific Northwest. Kind of the counterpart to Herb Kane in some ways as a city columnist. Casual, kind of off the cuff writing and reporting. Was a journalist by the name of Emmett Watson, and I actually was not familiar with Emmett Watson growing up, but of course, living in Seattle for the past 20 plus years, very familiar with who he was and his work. And of course, we many years later worked at one of the papers that he was a columnist at the Seattle Post Intelligencer. Yeah, I don't think we ever overlapped. He was the champion of, as he called it, lesser Seattle. And as I was sitting at my computer this week thinking about some of the stories that we were writing and the direction Seattle's going in, at least as represented by the growth of the tech industry and the tech economy, for some reason, Emmett Watson popped to my mind. And I got to wondering, what would Emmett Watson think about Seattle today? Just the overall growth of the city, because that seems to run counter to his whole philosophy. Of lesser Seattle. So I came up with an idea. I asked Chat GPT to write an Emmett Watson style column. In fact, a column in the voice and style of Emmett Watson, as if he were to come back to life and read a day's worth of GeekWire coverage, what would he say? And I have to say, after feeding at the GeekWire stories and making sure that it knew who Emmett Watson was and pointing it to a biography of him, the result was pretty astonishing to me. Very good. Yes, and I'll link to the full piece. But just to give you a sense for it, here's the intro. Emmett Watson's, Seattle. The ghost of Lesser Seattle weighs in. Ah, Seattle, my erstwhile haven against the hustle now embraced by the tech titans and startup savants. It's been two decades since I bidded you, and, oh, how the cityscape's narrative has morphed. I stumble upon GeekWire, a digital chronicle of this new world. And behold, the metamorphosis ByteDance. The parent of that whimsical app TikTok now claims a larger slice of Seattle's precious soil. Would these digital dramatists appreciate the drizzle and gray that once nurtured the city's humble heartbeat? Then there's Amazon, the goliath that swapped the modesty of bookselling for the boundless realm of e commerce. And now radio reimagination. Alas, their amp venture hit a discordant note. Yet the irony is not lost on me. They wield the baton over an orchestration of commerce, yet the rhythm of radio eluded their grasp. And, oh, the audacity secret price trials under a cloak of Project nessie. The Loch Ness monster is easier to stomach than clandestine capitalism. Amazon, you've truly outgrown your humble bookstore Britches. So that was Chat GPT channeling the voice and ethos of Emmett Watson to recap a day's worth of GeekWire stories. And he goes on and he eventually, of course, laments everything that his beloved Berg has become. So, first off, I thought it was remarkable in a lot of ways. There were a few things that I thought were not good. He kept saying the word o, like, oh, a lot to set up his things. And he said the word humble at least four times. Oh, how the plot thickens with each binary beat of this digital drama. Yes, it felt a little contrived in parts, but I think this could have passed as genuine. And to me, that's kind of the ultimate test. I did this late at night and I published it early in the morning. And John, you brought up something after I published it that made me rethink what I did, actually. You asked, what do you think his heirs would think about this? And that made me wonder if this was actually a good thing to do. Like, what would you think if your grandfather had been digitally reincarnated by some random journalist who asked Chachi PT to speak in his voice? I'm not so sure how I would feel about that. So that was one thing. And the reaction from readers was all over the map. So I'll give you the first, like a really positive one from one reader. I got this in my email. Thanks. It was great to hear the master as he viewed the city once yet again. Wow. Okay, now that's pretty cool. And then on LinkedIn, another one of my followers said, nope, not even close. Emmett is spinning in his grave. Glenn Drozendahl, who we worked with at the Seattle Pi, posted on Facebook, when I put this on there, I thought his comment was really interesting. He said, Great idea for a story, and I hate to say it a pretty good job by the Bot. Yikes. I thought that actually perfectly encapsulated my feelings after I really sat and reflected on this. I don't know. I don't know how I feel about this. Well, to your original comment on just what the heirs of Emmett Watson would think interestingly, I was listening to Marketplace on NPR this week. They had a very interesting story. The headline was, there's a corner of the Internet where YouTubers read strangers obituaries. Why? So we should link to this because it was a very fascinating really report. It's like this people are kind of hijacking obituaries in a way, and so it kind of ties into this theme a little purpose. Well, I assume they're monetizing it in some way, shape or form. Okay. Yeah. So it gets into this idea of how are people trading on the legacy of somebody who has passed, which I think is what you were struggling with. Yeah. And that wasn't like we're trading on it. I think you were doing it as a more of a tribute and intellectual exercise versus it's not like we're monetizing this in some way or doing this as our full fledged business. I guess not yet. Unless you're thinking that this becomes a regular column for GeekWire. No, not at all. I think that it was an interesting exercise, and to me it was a journalistic exercise in that it demonstrated the capabilities of generative AI in a novel way. And it also was a good thought exercise to consider what would Emmett Watson say and think about the place that his Seattle has become? And I thought the final paragraph was actually really good, and I'll read it here. It says, Ah, Seattle, the cradle of my musings, now a playground for the code clad conquerors. Too much alliteration in the whole thing, by the way. I kind of like that. Yeah, but it was too much. A little bit of alliteration goes a long way. And yet amidst the silicon saga, I yearn for the echoes of lesser Seattle, the gentle ripple of Puget Sound against the hull of a solitary ferry, the murmur of rain against the old brick facades, the symphony of simplicity. I think that's wonderful. It's pretty damn good. Yeah, I think it's fantastic. Spoken by a hack on my case. There's journalism and then there's writing. You know what I mean? So, I don't know, I think this would pass muster in a lot of daily newspapers, and frankly, it would probably be better than half the things that are in many newspapers in terms of a city columnist these days. That's not a comment on anyone in particular. I'm just saying this is pretty darn good. That's it. All right. Thanks for going on this AI dramatic journey with me today. Yeah, I think we had more readings in this episode than we've ever had. More readings and fewer listeners. Yes. All right, well, we hope you well next week. Maybe we'll have to bring back the chat or the bot creations of our voices and just do that again. I didn't even think of that. That would have made those earlier readings a lot easier. Bring back our voice clones. Yeah. Okay. Thanks for listening, everybody. Be sure to subscribe, rate and review the GeekWire podcast wherever you listen, and check out GeekWire.com. Slash Summit for our upcoming event. Until next time, I'm Tod Bishop. And I'm John Cook. We'll be back next week with a new episode of The GeekWire Podcast.