Support for Waveform comes from visible With Visible, you get a oneline plan with unlimited 5G data on Verizon's network for $25 a month, taxes and fees included. Sounds pretty good. So why isn't Visible for everyone? Well, Visible doesn't do stores, so you can manage your plan, chat to customer service and update your eSIM all on their app. And they don't bundle their plans with extra stuff that costs you extra money. So if you don't want a wireless plan that focuses on the wireless part, by all means don't switch today@visible.com. In times of traffic, your data may be temporarily slower than other traffic. Support for this waveform episode comes from Wix web agencies. You're going to like this one. I want to tell you about Wix Studio, the platform that lets agencies deliver exceptional client sites with max efficiency. So with Wix Studio, you can build unique layouts with a revolutionary grid experience, add sparks of delight with no code animations, or take more control with custom CSS, native Business Solutions let you cater to any industry and you can extend them even further with hundreds of APIs. Plus, the workflows just make sense from the centralized workspace to on premise collaborating to reusing assets across sites. And that's not all. Find out more@wix.com. Studio. All right. What up? What's up? Welcome back to Waveform. Yep. It's a pretty breezy week, right? Pretty light week. Honestly. It's Thanksgiving week. People are at home with their families, sort of holiday type stuff. We kind of slow down a little bit. Yeah, things wind down, people. People stop releasing major news that could, I don't know, like news that could change the fate of humanity. Oh, my God. Apple is out of yards. Nothing chats has been deleted. Ed bird is gone. Sam Altman is fired from OpenAI. He's a CEO at Microsoft now. Or maybe he's not. Space Ox six rocket exploded. Dua Lipa interviewed Tim. There's a 400 miles polestar. Oh my. Oh guys, this is a problem. Okay. I think we aged about 75 years in the last 40. I just want to say this week has been thank you guys for making that dramatic entrance so much worse. We planned it out and everything. It was great. I feel like this week has been the most insane week in technology for like five years at least. Really? That's how I feel personally in technology, just in technology news, it's definitely a lot of things happening at once, all of which are very dramatic. Yes. And a lot of things that we never thought would ever happen. Interesting. Well, where do we start? There's a couple of things that I literally would have put money on. Never happening. That we could start with. Maybe the nothing sunbird RCS thing is right. That's a whole experience in itself. Okay, let's start with that then. Okay, so we could go rewind a little bit to literally last week's episode when we were talking about the video that we made about Nothing trying this weird thing being this quirky, weird company, making an app that would bring imessage to their newest phone. Yeah the nothing phone two. And the challenges that they would have with that and obviously the reasons why they were going to try this crazy thing. Ultimately what they were doing was branding or skinning an existing app called Sunbird, which was in beta and wasn't really publicly available. So they're bringing it to the public, but ultimately having a number of security concerns. As I mentioned in the video, you probably don't ever want to type your Apple credentials into a third party service, ever. Probably. But it was an option. So it just was something that people should be aware of being available to them. No more than, I don't know, five days after that video. Probably like three days even before. Yeah, it was very quick. Yeah, very quickly. It gets all the attention in the world and everyone's security concerns are rightfully brought to the forefront immediately. Like almost over the top of all of the top of wow. Imessage for android. That's interesting. Nobody was talking about that anymore. It was immediately like, this is kind of a hack, you should probably never use it. By the way, I didn't log in with my own credentials, I logged in with the studio account. So that one maybe not in the best situation, but either way immediately gets talked a lot about the security. Right. How many days later was it that Sunbird or Nothing chats was removed from the Play Store over these security concerns? Yeah, pretty much immediately. Security researchers started ripping it apart, most notably from one of their competitors called Text. They have Texts.com, which is owned by Automatic, which also owns WordPress and Tumblr. They had a bunch of security researchers just rip it apart and they found a lot of really big problems that Sunbird was very shady about, was hiding a lot of stuff about things like they were using Http instead of Https, which is like difficult to do nowadays. How do you even get wow. They were storing all the media and text in plain text in a Firebase database. Yeah, it was really bad. I kind of picture the Nothing team and Carl watching this unfold, like, oh yeah, it could have totally gone. We could have seen this coming a mile. A great look. I feel like Nothing really should have done their due diligence here and had their own security team because especially because Nothing put their name on it in their video. They said, we made an imessage on Android app, which they didn't. They helped bring one to market. Yeah, basically. So that happened. Yeah, they pulled it immediately from the Play Store and then as an update, Sunbird just today, Tuesday day of recording, sunbird also suspended their operations indefinitely until they can figure out a solution. I'm not sure that's ever going to happen because I feel like their name is pretty tainted at this point. Yeah. So we went from Nothing launching a big collab with Sunbird that would be available to everybody soon, to it being removed from the Play store, to Sunbird no longer existing as a company, sort of. They still exist and they're just, like, seizing all operations indefinitely. Cool. And I just want to point out the timeline here. Right, so we put out the Nothing Chats video on the 14th. When they announced it by the 17th, that's when they got shut down. The Nothing chats thing got shut down. But on the 16th, the evening of November the 16th, on Thursday yeah, I'm sitting, I'm just typing on my little computer. This is one of those do you remember where you were? Moments? Yes, it really is. I was typing at a bar, I was just, like, typing words and I just see somebody posted in Slack. This thing about RCS coming to the iPhone the day before Nothing chats was supposed to come out, by the way. Yes. Wow. Yeah, I remember where I was, too. Where were you? So we were on the plane to Las Vegas for the F One race, which we'll get to later, and I had just gotten my room key and headed up to my room. I had just unpacked and took my stuff out my bag, put it down and opened my laptop and logged into the WiFi. And that's the first thing I saw. Wow. Like oh, dang. So what we saw was the headlines or commentary about the news that the iPhone will be getting RCS support after all next year, in 2024. Yeah. Now, whoa. We've been talking forever about the green bubble versus blue bubble thing, and I want to be very clear that's not going away. That's definitely not going away. But what Google has been pushing so hard and what a lot of people have been asking for is like, today, when an Android phone and an iPhone message each other, it is a horrible experience on purpose. Apple has been just running it back through SMS and MMS. If I send you a picture, it compresses it down to I don't know how many hundred and 90 bytes, whatever it is. It looks like trash videos get compressed to look like they were from the 18 hundreds. Yeah. And little rectangular box. Just horrible. It's all unencrypted, like it's a disaster. So, yeah, we wanted better support between Android phones and iPhones. So Android phones, all new phones, basically supporting RCS. The iPhone. Gaining RCS support in 2024 means that one green bubbles will stay green, but they will now be RCS messages instead of SMS and MMS, which ideally and correct me if I'm messing up some of these, but I think that means we're going to get read receipts, we're going to get typing indicators, we're going to get possibly reaction support and ideally, higher quality media. So high resolution photos, high resolution videos, and I think sending them over the Internet too. So all of that is yeah. Inline replies, threads, all of that is much, much better. It still isn't imessage. It's alongside imessage on the iPhone. Right. But the last bit of it was it's still unencrypted. And from what I understand, this is because the RCS universal profile that Apple is pledging to support, it doesn't have RCS built in or sorry, it doesn't have encryption built in. Encryption add on. Yes. It's very weird. The universal profile that was built by the GSMA has all of those things like typing indicators and red receipts and all this stuff, but there's no encryption built in. And my assumption for that would be the fact I believe there is encryption. It's encrypted in transit. It's just not end to end encrypted. Okay. I've been trying so hard to figure out what that means. I can't. Yeah, but in the universal profile in the universal profile, I don't know what it means. All the sources I've read say encrypted in transit, but not end to end encrypted. Interesting. Please tweet at me and explain what that means. Okay, well, good luck in a tweet. For some reason, it was on the universal profile. I have a inkling that a lot of countries, specifically the EU, is very against encryption in general, and they've been fighting against encryption for a long time. They've been trying to get companies like WhatsApp and all these other manufacturers to not have encryption in their apps because they want to be able to peek in the back door. Yeah. And so there's sort of been this weird power struggle between Meta and the EU for a long period of time. The GSMA obviously covers a lot of the European Union, so it's possible that when they were building the universal profile, they didn't build it in and just said, in your given country or for your given device, you could do whatever you want. But we don't want to build it into the universal profile. I'm not sure that's just the theory, but currently, Android phones that are using Google Messages use Google's proprietary end to end encryption standard, built in end end encryption. Right. Which is why it took so long for Google Messages to add group messages that had end to end encryption because they had to update their proprietary stuff. Got it. Yeah. So Apple doesn't want to use their stuff. They don't want to use Google's thing. Yeah. So they're going to use the universal profile. I've heard that there's hopes that maybe they will be able to add on to the universal profile or maybe support encryption down the road. It would be nice. I don't think it's the top of everyone's priority list, but I do think it's still pretty important considering MMS and SMS to this day, totally unencrypted. So that would be nice. But yeah, just one of those things we never thought would happen just sort of an out of the blue press release. Not really too much of a statement from any of the notable Apple people. Tim Cook said anything about no, no, he's too busy getting interviewed. A lot of people are like, nothing made Apple make this move. And no, it's not that. Because the day Thursday that they announced it was actually the last day that Apple had to make their case to the EU that they were not a core platform service for imessage. So the EU, they issued a bunch of gatekeepers. They said, these companies are gatekeepers with these apps in these types of platforms. So they had messaging platforms, they had social media, they had all this. So TikTok was on there, google was on there for various things, and imessage got listed as a potential gatekeeper that over a long period of time, they were going to issue an investigation into to determine whether or not they were gatekeepers. And Apple had until Thursday to make their case to the EU why they weren't gatekeepers. And so on the evening of the final day, the dawn of the final day, they go, we support RCS. Yeah, of course we're not gatekeepers. We're about to anyway. Universal profile. Yeah. What do you think ships first? RCS on the iPhone or Vision pro. Vision pro. Because vision pro is slated for potentially march, like spring. Yeah. And RCS on the iPhone I would guess is iOS 18. So maybe not till the next iPhone comes out. Yeah, got it. Yeah. Where were you? Where were you? Where were you when the news went down? That's definitely the biggest news of the week. It's a big deal. No? Yeah. That was really interesting to me. I want to discuss real quick, do you think that the green bubble, blue bubble thing is going to still be a problem? That's like a conversation that people are having around this. Right, right. Like, is it still going to be this, like, oh, you don't have an iPhone, you're a blue bubble? Yes. You think so? Oh, yeah. Apple will find many ways to make that persist because they know how strong that is. And there's still going to be a lot of features that imessage does not support with adding into. Like if you text an Android phone, you still can't probably do lots of things like add them into a group chat or whatever else. Apple imessage, you can't start a FaceTime from inside of it. There's lots of things, like the games inside of imessage that people play, all these things that they'll continue to add on. I think they're going to continue to add specific imessage only features that aren't supported by RCS. Yeah. They have the whole Imessage Store thing that you can download sticker packs. Apple pay people in there and send your stickers and memojis and whatever. I remember watching WWDC, I think it was, and just thinking the entire time, every single feature that they're announcing inside of messages is not supported when you're texting an Android phone. Totally. It must be an iPhone. Like the dragging of the stickers around the chats and the starting of FaceTime from inside of it, everything, the link sharing, link previews, it was all just if you text your friend with an iPhone yeah. I do wonder if they're going to let you do group chats with iPhones and Android phones and it'll just make the group chat be green, but it'll still be RCS. So if it's RCS, then the experience isn't getting downgraded that much. Hopefully. So people wouldn't be that mad. I don't know. Hopefully it's all a big unanswered question, but the fact that they announced they're doing it at all is like a major thing. Yeah. I did see a report that iOS 18 is apparently going to be, like one of the biggest iOS updates they've done in recent years because the iPhone 16 is not going to be that different from the 15. That's really funny. So to sell more iPhones, they have to make the next iOS update feel big. Which is funny because get the software update and you'll be fine. Yeah, I'm interested in that, though. I'm curious what they're going to be able to add. Maybe like checking off a box inside a widget. That would be super cool. Yeah. So that's nothing. Chats RCS on iPhone and sunbird all in one week. So that's your quick breeze through of maybe one of the biggest news stories of the past year. Just one of many we have here on this episode of Waveform. We'll take a quick break because we've got plenty more to talk about. But of course, as we do our quick break, we should do some trivia. Trivia. Okay. So the next segment we're about to get into after the break, marquez for Hitting the Microphone is all about Sam Altman. Oh, boy. At OpenAI, that's going to be a doozy. But before we get there, one year before OpenAI was launched in 2015, david just told me for a total of eight days, sam Altman was the CEO of what popular social media company? I don't like that look. I don't like that sparkle in your eyes. Sam Altman was the CEO of what Popular social Media for eight days. It's currently popular, yep. Wow. Sam Altman was the CEO for eight days of a popular social media company. There's not that many popular social media companies. Just saying. Yeah, true. It's probably X back in 2016. Yeah. Oh, I'm going to think on that. All right, we'll be right back. Support for the show comes from Shopify. You know, starting a business is not easy. In fact, taking that idea you had in your head and turning it into something real is kind of a miracle. Set yourself up for success by using Shopify. Shopify is the global commerce platform that helps you sell at every stage of your business. So with Shopify, you can open your online storefront right away without needing to know how to code. Just bring your best ideas and customize your online store with style. With Shopify's gorgeous flexible templates and powerful tools, Shopify grows with your business no matter how big you become. 10% of all ecommerce businesses in the US. Are powered by shopify. That's millions of businesses, large and small. Plus Shopify's 24/7 help is there to support you at every step of the way. So sign up for a $1 per month trial period@shopify.com. Waveform all lowercase. So go to Shopify.com waveform now to grow your business no matter what stage you're in. Shopify.com Waveform fox Creative this is advertiser content brought to you by Visible. Okay, so Visible Wireless is one of my partners and they're pretty great. Let me tell you why. They asked me to make a video explaining why Visible Wireless might not be for you. Pretty refreshing, right? So Visible's base plan with 5G mobile hotspot and unlimited data on Verizon's network for $25 a month works great for lots of people. So what's not to love? Well, they are all digital, so you do everything from managing your plan to updating your eSIM or getting customer service right in their app. If you love to handle everything without ever needing to talk to a human in a store, then this works great. But if you need to shop for a new phone in person, then Visible probably isn't for you. So unlike Verizon, would be a better choice. If you want your wireless bundled with a bunch of extra stuff, don't switch to Visible. But heads up, you're going to have to pay for that stuff. But Visible is focused on the wireless part of wireless. So if you want more than 5G mobile hotspot and unlimited data from your wireless plan and you're willing to stand online or sit on hold and pay top dollar for it, then by all means don't switch to Visible. Don't even go to Visible.com to learn more. You get it monthly rate on the Visible plan. Additional terms apply. Visit visible.com for additional information. Welcome back everybody. As you may have heard before and okay, I just want to take this quick note to say you're watching, listening to this probably on Friday. We are currently recording this on Tuesday. That's a big deal. A lot of stuff probably happened. So I really am sorry if we're out of date with this. We are trying our best. A lot happened since Friday. Yeah. So we're going to talk, OpenAI, Microsoft, et cetera. We're going to try to go blow for blow timeline up until now, the moment of recording, right? Acknowledging that some stuff's probably going to happen after we record before this video goes up. And that's fine. At least you'll be up to speed on maybe they'll take a Thanksgiving break and nothing will happen. No chance. No. Okay. One of the wildest, most I guess wildest meaning, like, most unexpected stories, kind of out of nowhere with no seeming explanation. Yeah, still no explanation. As of recording, 04:00 p.m. Eastern time on Tuesday. So it's a weird one because I can't begin with so how did it start? Because there's you kind of can because I actually went back to 2015 for this timeline. Oh, okay. Let's start there. What happened? All right, a lot of you potentially have heard of OpenAI. Probably by now, you probably already know. We made a video about Dolly, which they make, which was a text to image generator that kind of, like, got everyone excited. But then Chat GPT came out in all of this is less than two years. Less than one year for chat. GB. Chat GBT came out one year ago in November 2022. Yeah. Insane. So Chat GBT came out in 2022, and that kind of blew the lid off of this whole AI revolution. Just everyone talking about AI every single week. Advancements being made, everything Transformers, what Chappie GPT is based on, have been around since 2017, but OpenAI was the first company that kind of, like, took the lid off of what they could do and it really showed people what these models were like to play with. So since 2017, I'm just setting the stage, by the way. Since 2017, Microsoft invested a 49% stake in OpenAI, which gave it the ability to have a lot of cloud credits with Microsoft Azure because they need these server farms to run their models on. To me, it felt like we're too big and they're too big to straight up acquire OpenAI. Possibly regulations would not let that go through. But we're going to act a lot like we would have if we did acquire OpenAI. Meaning they are very close. Yeah. They work together on new products, new announcements, new features. They give each other exclusive access to things. Microsoft and OpenAI are, like, pretty they're very tightly bonded. There's actually an.org chart on the OpenAI website and it shows Microsoft as, like a minority investor in the chart. Sure. Yeah. So they invested for a 49% stake, which was effectively just like a ten to $11 billion investment, mostly in Azure cloud credits, which means they didn't give them cash. And when you say that, they kind of get to own OpenAI and sort of they get to do that without actually giving them cash. Imagine walking into a Best Buy and if they gave you enough gift cards, you would just own the Best Buy. That was a horrible analogy. I mean, it's not that different, but think about that. Yeah, think about that. Yeah. It's not that different. Didn't really give you anything. Yeah. By the way, I think it's yes. Yes. Azure. Microsoft Azure. Azure. Azure. Yes. Okay, so you can see that Microsoft has definitely taken advantage of this partnership over the last year, right? They released they released we've made so many videos around why Microsoft has so much to gain, so little to lose versus Google. They really kept this investment pretty quiet until Chat GPT came out, and then they took the lid off of it. Now on Friday last Friday, OpenAI's board very abruptly fired the CEO Sam Altman. And the saga that unfolded since then, or that has unfolded and is still currently, as of recording unfolding is probably the most fast paced, most in the open. Happening on Twitter, happening on threads live. I am glued to my phone. I can't stop refreshing my computer drama that we've seen in a very long time. Is it happening on threads, too? A little bit on threads. I've seen so much on Twitter. Yeah. The problem with Threads is they don't really have an algorithmic feed. So you can't see I'm getting stuff that happened two days ago, and it's just I would have to get lucky for it to pop up on my feed. But Twitter is just sitting in the trending topic. Yeah. Popping up on my for you page. Yeah, exactly. I was keeping up with everything on threats. Really? Personally. Yeah. Just because everyone I was following was talking about it. Yeah. So it wasn't, like, recommended thing. Yeah. Okay, so before we get into the timeline from Friday, I want to give a little context about OpenAI, the organization. So OpenAI was founded in 2015 as a nonprofit. You can kind of think of them like a research organization. They were basically like, we want to create an artificial general intelligence that benefits all humanity. And effectively what they would categorize an artificial general intelligence. As is a highly autonomous system that outperforms humans at most economically valuable work. And this came from a book I've been reading, but sort of as a proxy to the corporate AI. Things that were being built, like OpenAI more or less was supposed to exist to provide some structure to what AI hopefully could turn into and not go off the rails if it was just controlled by corporations. Yeah, that was the big thing, is that they made it a nonprofit specifically because they didn't want their research and work to be profit driven, which always errs towards acceleration. Right. We have to be in front of the other people. We have to be better than the other people. So if you're a nonprofit, you don't really have to chase that stuff. And originally, when they got founded, they were trying to get $1 billion worth of investments so that they could use that money to run the company and also hire engineers, do all that stuff. Just a billion? Yeah, just a billion. And they got a bunch of people to invest. Sam Alman invested a bunch of money. He was one of the co founders. They got Elon Musk to invest a bunch of money. He was also sitting on the board, I believe. And unfortunately, they were only able to raise about $130.5 million of investment. Can't do anything with that. Yeah, I mean, can't run a company with that. Yeah, it worked for a little bit, but it doesn't really last in the long run. Right. So in 2019, they kind of realized like, oh God, we need to figure out how to make money to run this company. Especially because once the transformer was invented in 2017, they started taking advantage of it. All of a sudden you have to train models that run servers and they were making things like GPT-2 and they had this it was called the OpenAI Five. This is actually how I heard about it back and I think like 2016, 2017, it was a dota two bot, which is the only video game that I play, that they trained with unsupervised learning, which is just like throwing the game in a sandbox and letting the AI learn how to play it with team coordination. And they trained it to compete against the best players of dota two in the world. And it won a bunch of times until they figured out how to beat them. Yeah. So obviously they had these little milestones that were really making it work. But then in 2019, they were like, okay, we're running out of money. We actually need to make more money. So what they did was they added a new company underneath the nonprofit company. So they had the nonprofit OpenAI, then they had a holding company underneath the nonprofit, and the holdings company was owned by the engineers and employees and the shareholders. And then that holdings company owned the for profit company. Okay. Yeah. I hate it. Yeah. But okay, there's a decent amount of businesses that are like this that are trying to be more like good for the planet. The whole idea is that the nonprofit still gets to make all the decisions and the nonprofit is generally made up of people who are not as involved with the day to day operations of the for profit business. I see. Yeah. There's still a sort of a wacky weirdness about a non profit owning a know yeah, I get weird. Yeah. Didn't Patagonia do something like this? Probably something similar. It was some sort of corporate donated yeah, they donated profits to a new not for profit that was owned by the person who owned Patagonia. Yeah, something like that. Yeah. So this new nonprofit company was also a capped the new for profit company was also a capped for profit company. So they could only make a certain amount of money per year that was used to pay engineers to run the servers and all the extra money got fed back to the nonprofit, which was used for research all of the stuff that the nonprofit did. Sure. Right. Okay, cool. So we got that out of the way. That's going to be very important to this story. Okay. Now that restructuring that they did to create the for profit, capped profit company also. Came with a 49% minority investment from Microsoft into the for profit arm of the company. Right, because they needed specifically a cash injection. Secondarily. They needed servers like Microsoft Azure. So Microsoft decided to hold a 49% stake in the company, which was effectively a $10 billion credit for Azure. Now, specifically, the board of the nonprofit company made sure that Microsoft was not able to have any leverage over what the company was doing, specifically, the nonprofit arm of the company, if you go on their website and look at their structure, it says, Microsoft intentionally does not hold a board seat. Microsoft is not able to control what the for profit company does. All of this stuff, they were, we don't own them, I swear, we don't own yeah, yeah. The nonprofit was like, we're going to continue on our mission and we need to make sure that Microsoft, a for profit company, does not alter our mission in a bunch of ways. But then you guys probably saw Bing Chat launched, which spurred this entire AI race with Bard and Google search generative experiences. But Microsoft's been adding GPT capabilities to literally everything. Oh, yeah, we got Copilot, we got Bing Chat, we got Microsoft 365, got all these AI integrations. So, yeah, like you said, it's like, we don't own them, but we're not exclusive. But it's going pretty good. Yeah, they're able to leverage and control a lot of the for profit wing. Anyway, this all really took off since last November when Chat GPT got released, but since then they have moved to a paid model, GPT Plus, which gives people access to GPT Four, which is their latest model. Then Dolly Three came, which was like the newest version of their text to image generator, all this stuff, and people started building on top of GPT Four. And the entirety of Silicon Valley suddenly had a bunch of AI startups which were really just GPT Four wrappers, which really felt very confusing to me. It did. It also kind of felt like a gold rush in a way, where it felt like every startup I'd seen had some, like my inbox. You should see it, it was just AI this, AI that. For a while, it became very popular to just say, yeah, so my company is like the Uber of blank. Exactly. And that was a couple years and then it's now the Chat GPT. We are the chat GPT of blank or we are the chatbot of or the AI of blank. Yeah, it's everywhere. And everyone was just launching Chat bots and for some reason saying it was going to change the universe, which I don't really agree with Chatbot Bridge yeah. But that all led up to this OpenAI dev day that we actually talked about on last week's episode that happened two weeks ago, where they announced GPTs, which was your own personal, specifically tailored chat GPT that they were going to have a store for you could sell them. You could buy them very how do you make a company at a corporation style thing happening? Right? I like the idea which for a nonprofit organization to be kind of like selling these GPTs felt weird. Felt a little weird. But that was a way that they were like, we got to make money out of this. And since then, since 2019, the valuation of OpenAI has gone from like $20 billion up to about 90 billion. Just to give you context, that's what they're valued at right now or what they were valued at on Thursday. Okay. And that all brings us to this last Friday. Now, we should probably introduce you to the board of the organization because they're going to be very central to the story. So first we've got the CEO, Sam Altman, which we talked about before. So you're not reading the script, are you? No. Okay. I was just googling don't open it as value. Don't read the script because that's the answer to the trivia question. Okay. He developed a social networking app called Looped when he was 19 in 2015. And then he was a partner at Y Combinator, which is the biggest tech startup incubator in the world. And then eventually he helped found OpenAI when it launched in 2015. Then we've got another co founder. We've got Greg Brockman, who was stripe's CTO in 2013, and he left them in 2015 to fund and become the CTO of OpenAI. And he led a lot of those early projects that they did. Then you've got the chief scientist, Ilya Sutzkiver, who, by the way, is the protege of Jeffrey Hinton, who was the guy that invented the neural network, recently left Google to go talk about why he thinks AI is going to destroy the world. So that was fun. Nice. Okay, so those are the board members. We're going to talk about them again in a bit. On Thursday night, ilya texts Sam asking to schedule a Google meet call for Friday at noon. Note that Sam was representing OpenAI at a conference on Know. They're owned by Microsoft and not using Skype. Just wanted to just yeah, just wanted to throw all that in there real quick. People are making this joke and they're saying it's hilarious. However, the call was coming from the nonprofit arm of OpenAI, and the nonprofit does not have an investment by Microsoft. Excellent point, David. Thank you. So they use the better. Got it. Yeah. People are making all these jokes on Twitter, like, please just never answer a Google Meet call ever again. But he takes this Google Meet call and they basically fire him out of nowhere. Specifically Ilya, who was the other co founder, and they didn't really tell anyone why they fired him. They just said that Sam was not consistently candid in his conversations with the board, which is really vague. Like very vague. Yeah. And everyone just starts wildly speculating as to what the heck happened. Right. Including us in the slack. Including us in the slack. Immediately after Sam's call, greg Brockman, who was also on the board, and the other co founder that was not Ilya, got a Google meet call as well. Answered it, probably shouldn't have answered it. After the first one happened, he didn't get fired, but he got removed from his board seat and they demoted him in the company. But said he was going to stay in the company and they called him as they issued a press release saying he was staying at the company. He immediately tweets out, no, I'm not staying at this company if you're just going to randomly do this to me. So he's like, I don't know what you guys are doing, but I'm leaving with Sam no matter what happens. And he tweets out this thing that's literally like, we're still trying to figure out what happened. Yeah. So very, very abrupt, this beginning of the chain of events. Yeah. Not really sure what triggered it or what sparked it. It's like, yeah, that's kind of unknown, but it is very quickly starting to send some dominoes. The entire, the entirety of the tech space is just like, what is happening right on Twitter already? And then Ilya called for an all hands meeting Friday afternoon where he defended the ousting and said that it wasn't necessary to protect OpenAI's mission of making AI beneficial to humanity. So it's kind of vague. Yeah. Those breadcrumbs lead you to believe like, okay, I assume that the rest of the board thought that maybe Sam and Greg were doing things that were more commercially driven, right? Yeah. If they wanted to focus specifically on making sure that AI was only being developed for all of humanity and wasn't being affected by corporations, then maybe he thought that they thought the rest of the board thought that Sam was being manipulated by Satya and Microsoft or being overly leveraged by them. That's one theory. There are many theories going around. Yes. Microsoft obviously not very happy about this because they have a 49% stake in the for profit company and they also allegedly did not know anything about Sam getting fired until the press release went out. Yeah. Damn. When that happened, if you Googled Microsoft stock, it was just a straight line down, it just went boom. But yeah, and correct me if I'm wrong, David, the OpenAI board does not hold a fiduciary responsibility to Microsoft. Sam had a fiduciary responsibility to Microsoft as the CEO of the for profit company of which Microsoft had a stake. But legally speaking, according to the charter, the board is only responsible for not killing Sam. Sam was on the board. That is, that is true. That is true. So all of a sudden Satya makes this statement at like three in the morning that's like, we at Microsoft still hold steadfast in our mission and are committed to OpenAI as a strategic partner. We're excited to get to know the interim CEO who they randomly promoted from a role underneath Sam at the time. And everything's fine and everything's going steadfast and we're all cool. Was this like a weekend tweet to save the markets? Yes, it was like, I have to put this out before the markets open on Monday because otherwise our stock is going to just totally die. Yeah. But then three senior executives also resigned in response to the news and slowly at OpenAI, and slowly, people just started trickling out of the company as far as the timeline is concerned. When is this all happening? Friday night, baby. This is still Friday night. And when you say slowly trickling, you mean very, very quickly. Very, very quickly trickling out of the company as far as yeah, real time. It was happening in real time on Twitter. It was insane. Yeah, insane. Okay, so I finally go to bed. Nice. And now we're on to Saturday morning, november 18. OpenAI sends an internal memo about how internal leadership is scrambling to figure out what happened. And they're still having multiple conversations with the board trying to understand what's going on because the rest of the board, the remaining four people on the board were not being consistently candid in their conversations with the rest of the company. Right. And as a recording right now, we still actually don't know why they fired Sam and makes it makes no sense. Hopefully by the time this podcast goes live on Friday, we'll know what happened, but who knows? But the memo that they sent said we can definitively say that the board's decision was not made in response to maleficence. Is that how you pronounce that word? Maleficence? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Is that yes, I think so. Oh, well, okay. That word maleficens. Maleficens. Or anything related to financial business safety or security privacy practices. So it looks like Sam didn't break any major laws or do anything super illegal or, I don't know, destroy the company financially or anything like that. Sure. After this, Sam started telling people that he was already planning a new venture because he tweeted out, like, well, I'm confused, but excited for what's next? Get ready to see what's next. And then Greg Brockman was like, bigger things coming soon. So within like 12 hours, they already seemed to have a plan with what they wanted to do with the next thing. Don't look back. Sam. Yeah. Just kidding. Which is crazy. Now there have been reports that Sam has been apparently fielding investments for a new AI chip startup that could be competing with Nvidia and reduce reliance on them. And there is a theory that he had been using OpenAI's name to sort of get the funding for that, even though it was his personal startup. That is just a lot of rumors and reporting, but that's a potential theory. Right after this, investors started exerting pressure on OpenAI to reinstate Sam because obviously people were leaving. They were just about to get a $90 billion valuation, and anyone could just pull out at any time. Microsoft's investment in OpenAI isn't like they didn't give them all the money. They just gave them credits. And they could cancel the credits and say that they didn't fulfill their obligations or whatever. Right. So you could take this company from worth $90 billion to worth almost nothing in a weekend, and they didn't want to do that. So the board investors start going to OpenAI, and they're like, Board, you have to reinstate Sam. Like, this is a huge problem. The board ended up agreeing to reinstate him in principle. I'm not really sure what that means, but they couldn't come to a decision in the timeline that they were given. They missed multiple deadlines on it. And Sam said that he was ambivalent on coming back and would need significant governance changes if he were to come that's Saturday. Okay. Sunday, I wake up, I get out of bed, I brush my teeth, I open my phone. Oh, my God, what do you find? Sam goes to meet the board at OpenAI HQ, where he posts a photo of him with a guest badge saying it's the first and last time he will ever wear one of them. I did see that he is theoretically going in order to negotiate with them on becoming CEO again, getting rid of the current board, and working on getting a new board in because, again, they had theoretically agreed to replace themselves. Yeah. I remember this unfolding on my timeline because I was still reading all of the reactions of what a crazy day in tech that Sam Altman is getting fired from OpenAI. This might be the craziest day. Oh, he might be going back. Okay. It's also an even crazier day. Like all of that happened. Yeah. Oh, is this going to be a nothing burger? And then he goes back and he's trying to work with them to both find a new to basically find new board members. And what was funny about this is that Mira Muarta, who was the interim CEO that they elevated to CEO after they fired him, she was trying the one that was trying to work with them to get him rehired, he set this noon deadline for them to figure it out. They asked him if they could extend to 05:00 p.m.. He said okay. And in that five hour period of time where he asked if they could extend till 05:00 P.m., they fired Mira and hired a new interim CEO. What? Which to me just says that they are telling him one thing and trying to shove something in at the last minute. Wow. Yeah. Which is not great. And they hired as the new interim CEO Emmett Shear, who is the co founder of Twitch, for some reason, straight off the streets. Yeah. Like you. Do you want to be the CEO? Come on, get over here. Kinda. I mean, apparently they went to a bunch of two different AI companies and asked them in 5 hours. In 5 hours, zoom calls like, hey, can I get on a call real quick? Want a job? You want to be the CEO of OpenAI, your biggest competitor? Both of those people said no, and apparently Emmett Shearer almost said no, but then said yes. Which is kind of ironic because he's tweeted some very weird stuff recently. Like, he said that he thinks the CEO job could easily get automated away except for a few key decisions, which is maybe why he joined. Interesting. Yeah. Okay. Meanwhile, pretty much every single employee at OpenAI started retweeting Sam's tweets with heart emojis, which to me signals that they are basically saying, like, if you go start your own new company, we're going to come with you. Okay. Yeah. It was almost every single employee. So there was just heart emojis. So they seem to like crazy Sam being the CEO. People seem to like Sam being the yeah. Yeah. So that was the end of Sunday. Okay. Monday I wake up, I brush my teeth, I open my phone. 03:00 A.m.. It's announced that Sam, Greg and others will be joining Microsoft to lead a new advanced AI research division. This is all before the markets even open on Monday. Cool. This all happened in like 48 hours. Yeah. Jeez. And then Satya effectively says, any other OpenAI employees that want to go to Microsoft can come too. Which is hilarious. There were Microsoft employees that were tweeting these memes out, being like, I thought we didn't have headcount. And now 770 employees are going to come to Microsoft. This is also really funny just in the context of you probably can't acquire OpenAI, but if they all leave at once and you hire all of them, technically you didn't acquire them. You didn't acquire them, but that's pretty good for going to it would be insane for Microsoft. They'd get the company for free. They already have all the Azure servers. They had already been working with them so closely that would probably be pretty easy for them to get back to normal. Right. Which seems great, except it's not great that Microsoft, already a giant tech juggernaut, would now just own effectively the biggest, like an Amoeba in the world. Like absorbing, absorbs a whole bunch of people. I got activision blizzard. Now I'm going for OpenAI. Now I'm coming for you. Yeah, it was a whole situation. Very crazy. Yeah. Like we said, OpenAI was about to be valued at $87 billion and Microsoft just effectively got them for free, which is insane. That would be the biggest satya, you doll. Satya you doll. Yeah. And after Satya said this, the stock price went to the moon. So at first it dipped when Sam said he got fired. And then Satya was like, we hired Sam. And it was like, whoop. Wow. Yeah. Sam Alman moves markets $87 billion. But then a little bit later on Monday, ilya the board member that kind of fired Sam, tweeted out that he deeply regretted his participation in the board's actions, and he's doing everything that he can to reunite the company. Which is crazy because a lot of people were speculating that he was the one that convinced the board to fire Sam in the first place. Considering Jeffrey Hinton, his person that he trained under, was the one that is the most worried about evil AI taking over. And the biggest theory going around is that Ilya was so concerned about the acceleration through corporate means that he didn't feel like the nonprofit part of OpenAI, which was supposed to be the main part of the company, had any governance anymore, and they just needed to replace him with someone who would slow down. So it's insane that he's saying that he I regret everything. Come back, Sam. Yeah. So people don't hate me as much. Exactly. Yeah. So then in the morning on Monday, this letter comes out with 505 of OpenAI's, roughly 770 employees, saying that they will resign if Sam and Greg are not reinstated and the board is ousted by 05:00 P.m., that number was up to 738 employees out of the 770 over 90, like, 8%. And I would guess that the remaining, like, 30 employees were probably just on vacation. That'd be my guess. Because if you're one of the few people that was like, no, I'm staying on this sinking ship when it's 769 out of 70 and you're the last guy, you're like, oh, it's me. Yeah. You're dancing on the Titanic. That's wild. Yeah. But plot twist for the HBO drama that's about to come out in a couple of years from this, ilya's name was also on this letter. Okay, that's just confusing. That's just confusing. What is going so guy who fired Sam says, we demand Sam back. Okay? We both demand Sam back, and we demand that I am fired and replaced. Yeah. So that's really committing to the I regret this. Really committing. Hardcore committing to, you know, isn't Sam a Microsoft employee? Like, didn't Satya just say that he was going to hire Sam? Like, you brought up this statement, and now everyone's saying, Come back, and then last night, monday night, Satya went on multiple interviews on CNBC and on Kara Swisher's on podcast, and they're all like, Isn't Sam and Microsoft employee now? And Satya's just like, whatever Sam wants to do, he could do. It's totally up to him. If he wants to come join us, I'm cool with that. If he wants to go back to OpenAI, I'm cool with that. I'll support him no matter what. That sounds like we sent him something he hasn't signed yet, so I can't say he's an employee, but come on, Sam. Yeah. He's fielding his options, clearly, for sure, but it's just insane that the CEO of microsoft put out statements being like, they now work for us. We are starting a new experimental AI division. And that was just kind of a I don't know, maybe it was literally just to save the stock. Just trying to secure the yeah, secure the stock without having actually secured anything yet. Yeah. Now we are down to reports where Sam is apparently trying to go back to OpenAI today, Tuesday. As of this morning, they were apparently back in negotiations trying to get him back there. And the twitch CEO who became the intern CEO, the old twitch CEO became the intern CEO of OpenAI is now saying he's going to resign if the board doesn't tell him what happened and why they fired Sam. Which they didn't even tell him. They didn't even tell Sam. No. I would hope that by now he knows, but it doesn't make any sense. So as of 04:27 p.m.. Eastern Time tuesday, November 21 yeah, check Twitter real quick. Let me just check Twitter. Yeah, you're probably right. I think that's it. Make sure nothing has been posted. We are up to date. Okay. Nothing has been posted so far. So far. That's where we're at. There were reports that they were trying to get Anthropic to merge with them to take over the board. And Anthropic is one of OpenAI's biggest competitors. They make an AI called Claude, which is supposed to be like a much more friendly, much more aligned AI. And they have all these guidelines and rules. It's a whole thing. There are two potential outcomes that happen. Either Sam comes back as CEO, the board gets completely replaced and we're looking at a very, very different OpenAI, even with the nonprofit board that probably doesn't care as much about making sure that AI doesn't take over humanity. So that's where we're at currently. So either Sam goes back and we have a very different company, or he doesn't go back and the entirety of OpenAI goes to Microsoft and the actual OpenAI turns into a pile of dust. Okay, if you had to make a prediction, which is such a silly thing to do because you're going to know before this even goes live, but what would you quickly think is actually going to happen? I think that the board is going to cave because each individual member of the board, like their reputation is on the line. There's three of them that are making this decision because Ilya caved and the entire company seems to disagree with the entire company disagrees with them. And I don't think those three people are ever going to have a job anywhere ever again. Yeah, fair if they allow that to happen. However, that apparently their original idea of OpenAI was that they want the company to be able to fail in the event that they disagree with the direction it's going in. Because they want so badly for this AGI model to not take over the world. And destroy humanity or whatever, that they're willing to put the company up in smoke and they have so far resisted so much that it's also an equal possibility that that just doesn't happen. And then Microsoft becomes like three times more powerful. I think that he will go back to OpenAI personally and this will all be kind of a nothing burger except for the fact that the company is completely restructured and it's much more of a for profit company. Yeah. What would your prediction be? I feel like I agree. Just having that overwhelming, whatever, 700 plus out of 770 all seemed to send a pretty quick obvious message that, hey, we preferred the way it was when Sam was running it then. Seems like they've made it very clear that that's what they want to do. So I don't know. It is weird. It's a developing story. That was our summary up until this point. So at least as you now read further headlines, you know, of this history, you know where we follow it, you know where we were in the moment on Tuesday. Yeah. Fascinating stuff. These conversations with him returning to the company were supposed to happen today, Tuesday, Pacific Time. So 3 hours before currently right now. So this could change within the next few hours. Perfect. And maybe we'll be able to add a little snippet tomorrow if it's changed by then. But yeah, it's been very insane to watch happen in real time. Well, look at that. It's less than 24 hours later. Real quick, we said we'd be back if something happened. It's the next day. Something happened. Something happened. So real quick, just a quick add on to actually get to the point where we're going to just ship this episode. What happened since yesterday? Okay, so yesterday we were speculating whether or not Sam was going to be reinstated, whether or not there's going to be a new board as of like 01:00 a.m. Eastern time last night. Sam is back. We predicted correctly. Open aya yes, we did. There is a new board. We predicted correctly. Yeah. Open AI put out a statement that said we have reached an agreement in principle yet again. In principle, whatever that means. I think that just means we haven't signed anything yet, but somebody said it on the phone, so we're counting it. Yeah. For Sam to return to OpenAI as CEO with a new initial board of Bret Taylor, Larry Summers and Adam DeAngelo. We are collaborating to figure out the details. Thank you so much and your patience through this. Yeah. Okay. So just to set the stage a little, brett Taylor is the former CTO of Facebook and he was the chairman of Twitter before the Musk acquisition. You mean meta and x. Yes. Oh, my God. He was also the co CEO of Salesforce until January of this year, aka Slack. Yeah. Larry Summers is an economist and was the former Treasury Secretary for some reason, I'm not sure why he's on this board. Very strange. Anyway, the initial point of the board is going to grow it to nine people so that this kind of thing doesn't happen again. Microsoft wants to have a seat on the board, and Sam also wants to be on the board, but they're not on the initial board. And Satya says he doesn't want any more surprises. Good statement. I would be very terrified of Satya just showing up at night and I don't want any more surprises. We don't want any more surprises now, do we? Yeah. Okay. I still have a couple questions from this though, right? First of all, what happens to Ilya because he was on the board? He got kicked off the board, but he also flipped to support Sam. Is he still at the company? He signed that paper with the other 700 employees. Unsure. I keep doing research on this and I can't find anything. Okay, so maybe stuff will come out in the next as of recording. Yes. But obviously the biggest question is what actually happened here, right. And there actually has been some reporting that gives some insight into what people think actually happened. There's this report from the New York Times that says that Sam and the board have been fighting for more than a year now, but it got a lot worse after Chat GPT launched and everything got more commercialized. Apparently Helen toner, which if you remember from earlier, was that Georgetown University person on the board, she co wrote a paper for Georgetown that was very critical of OpenAI's approach to safety and praised Anthropic's approach to safety. Sam reprimanded Helen for this paper, according to some emails that Times got a hold of, and he said, I do not feel we're on the same page on the damage of this paper. Any amount of criticism from a board member carries a lot of weight. He also apparently talked to a number of other higher ups about potentially getting her removed from the board, and Ilya was apparently thinking about also wanting to remove her from the board. And then I guess since then, they all were like, nah, Sam needs to get removed from a board. There was already some friction. Yeah. So there also used to be three more members of the board, but those positions never got filled. It just seems like a lot of small things that kind of led to a crazy weekend. Got it. Okay. Yeah. Well, now we know. Now we know what we know. We don't know what we don't know, but we know what we know. If you didn't know, now you know. But if we don't know, then you also don't know. That's true. Unless you went on the Internet. Yeah. Okay. That's the end of the interjection, hopefully. Hopefully, yeah. That's up until 03:10 p.m. Wednesday, November 21 if things changed, I'm sorry, Ship. It all right. Believe it or not, it's not the. Only thing that happened this week. There are some other things that we're still going to talk about right after the break, so let's do trivia. Dua Lipa interviewed Tim Cook. He did? She did. They talked about Vision pro. She seemed very impressed for some reason. I knew you were hoping what Dua Lipa thought of Vision Pro. She got to try to try it. They just talked about it. Talked about it. That's dumb podcast. Really? Wow. All right, Trivia. Also, more news that's broken while we're recording this podcast. Even Binance's CZ is pleading guilty. Doesn't really deserve a full news section, because if you didn't see that coming, I don't know what sort of news you're paying attention to. But now trivia. So, continuing with our Sam Altman Trivia this week oh, no. While building his first app looped, sam Altman reportedly worked so hard that he got what? Old timey disease? Oh, I know this. That's A, you know this gangrene, b, scurvy, c, consumption, or D, typhus? Okay, I have a guess. Okay. Why do you know that? I must have recently read this, I guess. Yeah. All right, weird. We'll figure it out after the break. For the show comes from Gigabyte and their 4K gaming monitors. But first, a story. The last movie that I saw in theaters was Finding Dory. And I remember it because it was it was beautifully animated. It was awesome. And I would hate to see that masterpiece yes, masterpiece on anything less than an awesome screen. It was that good. True. So for the serious gamers out there, this is not even an option. Not when games are becoming even more immersive and visually complex every day. So whether you're gaming on a PC console or streaming, you need the full spectrum of color, depth, and razorsharp resolution that only 4K can give you. So Gigabyte knows that every hardcore gamer deserves the full 4K experience. The graphics are getting better, the games are getting better, so your monitor should be getting better, too. Their lineup of elite gaming monitors can't be beat. They've got a variety of models to choose from, and the sizes range from 27 inch to 55 inch according to your needs. All the lineups feature up to or higher refresh rates HDMI, two one, and super speed Ipsva panels to ensure a smooth gaming experience when paired with the new gen consoles or desktop gaming PCs. So get yours today@aoris.com. Monitors 4K. So that's aorus.com. Monitors 4K. Play 4K. Play for win. Fox creative. This is advertiser content brought to you by Visible. Okay, so Visible Wireless is one of my partners, and they're pretty great. Let me tell you why. They asked me to make a video explaining why Visible Wireless might not be for you. Pretty refreshing, right? So Visible's Base plan with 5G mobile hotspot and unlimited data on Verizon's network for $25 a month, works great for lots of people. So what's not to love? Well, they are all digital, so you do everything from managing your plan to updating your eSIM, or getting customer service right in their app. If you love to handle everything without ever needing to talk to a human in a store, then this works great, but if you need to shop for a new phone in person, then visible probably isn't for you. So unlike Verizon would be a better choice. If you want your wireless bundled with a bunch of extra stuff, don't switch to visible. But heads up, you're going to have to pay for that stuff. But visible is focused on the wireless part of wireless, so if you want more than 5G mobile hotspot and unlimited data from your wireless plan, and you're willing to stand online or sit on hold and pay top dollar for it, then by all means, don't switch to visible. Don't even go to visible.com to learn more. You get it monthly rate on the visible plan. Additional terms apply. Visit visible for additional information. All right, we're back. Jumping into the final section. We've got a couple quick hits that somehow weren't the biggest news of the past six, seven days. Yeah. Just sort of got swept under the rug, but still kind of interesting. Might have been headliners in their own weeks, but an interesting one for me was the polestar two quietly got a range bump for the 2024 model with a 655 kilometer range. That's over 400 miles of range. 406. 407. Didn't seem to make that many headlines. That's pretty I know. Pretty good. 400 miles of range. I remember you posting the tweet about it from polestar, and I looked it up to try to find articles, and there were only, like, two articles about it, just a few. It was, like, kind of a quiet newsweek, so I kind of figured it would be more like, isn't that fairly major? Because don't not that many EVs have over 400 miles of range. Really good point. I think I can only name EQS. Lucid air. I don't think the Rivian with the max packs, the long range model s. Long range model s four, it does claim 400. Yeah, true. And then yeah. Now, polestar two, what does the EQS have? I think there's an EQS that just has around 415 or something like that. Lucid's way over 400. Really? Yeah. The gravity that we just saw is announced. It's supposed to ship with 440 miles of range on their SUV. Dang. Except if you have too many kids in the backseat, I'm sure if you load it up, it's not going to go 440 miles, but it's cool to see. I think rivian might have an honest 400 when they ship theirs with a range pack. With the max pack? Yeah. The big boy. Yeah, the Polestar add that to the list. 400 plus my range. That's awesome. I feel like that's a pretty good number, too, that you want to hit. They're achieving this with a bunch of small things that sort of add up to like a 10% boost in range, like a slightly larger battery. Goes from 78 to 82 kilowatt hours. Okay. It's a little bit of a refresh, so it's a little more aerodynamic. It's got the nose cone now. So you add that stuff together and you end up with a more efficient drivetrain hitting. This is not yet the one that's using the NACS charger. Right. That happens in 2025, I think. This well, that's unclear. The Tweet doesn't tell me too much. Okay. It just says the Polestar Two, the upgraded Polestar Two will have a barrier breaking super long range. Ironically, the photos they Tweeted only show from the right side and the back, but not where the charge port is. Yeah, no info on that. Interesting. Okay. I mean, that's what I'm most interested in, is I don't really want to get an EV until everything starts moving over to NACS anyway. Yeah, that is a really good point. I feel like in the age of recommending EVs, when you're really thinking about buying a car, if you don't need one right now, if you're thinking about getting an EV, I would strongly suggest, if you can wait one more year, every single EV that is going to get better, they're all going to have the Tesla Charge port. Almost all of them now have made that promise. They're going to support NECs and then they'll have way more chargers available to them. As far as road tripping goes anyway. If you're never going to road trip, fine. I guess it doesn't matter. But that is a hashtag pro tip if you were thinking about getting an electric car anytime soon. Yeah, pretty worth having. Yeah. And then one more bit is we did get to the go to the F One race. This was sort of in the background of all of this. Me and a slice of the team, we went out to Las Vegas for one of the races near the end of the Formula One season. Did you get to see the Sphere? We did get to see the Sphere. I know, it's just as exciting as the race. It is quite a large spherical building with screens on the outside. It's pretty sick. First thing I noticed when I looked at it, and Ellis can verify, I was like, I think that's 90 Hz. Really? I think it's 90 Hz. Wow. But it's hard to say what is a 90 Hz thing at that scale. It's an Led wall, basically, like stitched together. I think animations moving across the sphere looked very smooth, like they were 90 Hz, but I don't know if they're refreshing at 90. We only want one thing and it's disgusting to see the La sphere. It is vegas. Vegas. It is super interesting to see, but yeah, the F One race was like, it's a street race. So part of the track was the Las vegas Strip. Yeah, it was a very picturesque race. It was at night, too. Yeah. But the one thing that's going to stick with me is just how much louder and more like exhilarating visceral it is in person. I was thinking of broadcast because I saw all your Instagram stories and you were just like, this is so insane. It's much more insane than through your phone. And I was watching through my phone and I was like, that doesn't seem that crazy. Yeah, dude, this is my pet peeve. With car videos online is none of them can actually give you the feeling of what the car sounds and feels like. I've seen a lot of really good videos of micing up the car and it just peaks every time. You can't actually feel the vibrations, the difference between the sub bass, like the super low rumbles, versus the sound of the pitch when you accelerate. None of that comes through on video. The bass that is your chest cavity. Yeah. The loudest video I've ever taken in my life is when all of those cars lined up for the beginning of the race. 20 cars in a row all at once. Light turns green, they all go. I think I probably hit 115 decibels or something like that on my watch and on my phone. It just sounds like it just sounds like a normal F one car passing by. It doesn't sound that crazy. It was chest rattlingly loud. Did you have to wear earplugs? I should have earplugs. I should have. Look what Apple's done to my vernacular. I could have worn AirPods Pro maybe, and plugged this pro. That'd be good through on or whatever. Yeah. No, they gave us earplugs. I didn't wear them. I wanted to experience it with all of my being. I would have regretted it. No, it was awesome. Are you a fan now? Honestly, yeah. The thing about going to an F one race in person is like, this is a four mile track or whatever it is, and you can't see most of the track. Most of the time you only get to post up at, like, one turn or one straightaway. Yeah. So what was happening was we were on this balcony and I was looking out at the straightaway, which was right between the last turn and turn one. But then anytime something interesting happened, you'd hear, like a crowd reaction or a gasp, and I would turn around and look at the TV broadcast to find out what was happening, because that's what everyone else was seeing. And you turn back, and I'd turn back and I'd see and I turned back around and I'd see what was happening on the screen. So it was one of those how long is one lap? Literally 90 seconds. Whoa. Do you know how far how many miles that is? So they're going the entire race is 50 laps. 190 miles. That's whoa. Okay. And it's 90 minutes long. Wow. 3.8 miles per lap. 3.8 miles per lap. 90 seconds. Wow, they are cruising. So when I first got there, we posted up at that, like, straightaway where they came around the bend and did turn one. And I was looking at the guys, I was like, how fast do you think they're going down there? We were like, maybe 110. I think they might be going 90 foot, maybe 100 miles an hour around this turn. Think about that. 100 to 100 miles an hour around the curb. No. And then we turned around and looked at the broadcast, and they have, like, the cameras on the cars and the live speed readouts. Yeah. And they were going 175 miles an hour around the turn, the first turn. They're going so fast that you see the cars moving and you think, wow, I always thought an f one car was so much bigger than that. That looks like a little itty bitty, tiny car. And then you see them stationary and you're like, wow, this is the biggest car I've ever seen. This is like an SUV sized vehicle. Dang it warps it with every single one of your senses. I've never thought about the ming big and the smell. Oh, my dude, I love the smell. The race fuel, the fuel, the tires. There's just chemical in the air. Chemical. I love those hot tires. Everything. Dang. Yeah, it is a much more every sense you have, from the vibration to the smell to the visuals, you can see the tires getting torn up in real time as they go. One set of tires, last 20 laps, and then they're like, done. Oh, my god, they're torn up. It's really interesting. I know a lot of people that were criticizing it for being in Vegas, saying it was just like, a lot of spectacle and stuff. But when I think about when I was like a wi lad playing PlayStation two, playing grand tourismo five, and a lot of the maps were like, in Vegas on the las vegas strip, and I was like, yeah, that would never be a real track. And the fact that the photos that I saw from it were just like, there's the bellagio and all of the big hotels, the sphere in the background, which sometimes had a little emoji face on it, like watching the race as it went by, and then after the race, just to put the nail in the spectacle coffin. It was like fire. Like, there was a coordinated fireworks show launched from the roof of every hotel in vegas. It was literally like a citywide panoramic. Fireworks show. Vegas is like another universe. Yeah, vegas at night, too. It's like 1112 midnight. It was very picturesque. Wow. It was super cool. That's crazy. So it was a pleasure to experience it. We were also working the whole time putting together a video about f one. It'll probably be live around this episode, but f One explained, I am very excited about this video. I'm afraid to learn about F one because after Drive to Survive came out, it felt like every single person in my life. It's sort of like soccer or football as I'm going to get yelled at comments. But oh yeah, it's like whenever the World Cup happens, everyone who I thought just did not care about soccer suddenly knows every little thing about soccer. And it felt the same way after Drive to Survive came out. It's like everyone watched that documentary and now everyone that I know cannot stop talking about F One. There is definitely an element of that, the world coming together for a cultural event. My favorite part outside of that is how much what happens in F One affects what happens outside of F One. So there's the obvious part, which is like, these are a bunch of engineers developing the tiniest fraction of a second improvements on these cars and spending millions of dollars to figure out what works. That stuff will eventually trickle down to the cars you and I get to drive, which is super cool, even if it's just like a simple thing. It's like a recent materials. Exactly. Yeah. And it literally is like Ferrari is out there racing cars around the track, and then they figure out all of the improvements over time to F One have been one team. Sometimes one guy on one team goes, I think if we put a wing on the front axle, it would give us more downforce and that could let us turn faster. And they'll do that on say that they'll do that on their car and they'll roll out their car, and one of the cars will be mysteriously faster for some reason before all the other teams figure out what's going on and do their own version of it. And that literally happens every year with some innovation on the car. Dang okay, wait. I have a dumb question, potentially. Go for it. Is that why all the F One cars kind of look the same? Yes, because they've all kind of fell on this one form factor that works. They all morph toward good observation. So if you scroll back far enough, they all kind of look like simple tubes with wheels. And as you fast forward over time, you kind of watch them all morph to get flatter and more blade shaped, and then they start to add the same features. But if you're observant enough, you can find archival footage where one of the cars has a front wing and none of the rest do. And then the next season, all of them have front wings, and then one of the cars has this arrow feature. And then the next season, because it worked really well, all the rest do. My favorite is when stuff doesn't work. So in 2001, there was a Verstappen car that had a huge front wing sticking off of the front, which was like, a stupid looking spoiler over the front axle, and they rolled it out for a race and it just didn't work. That great. And we never saw it again. Dang. Oh, my God. Why did they think that would work? Because downforce on the front axle keeps the front tires planted better around turns. Yeah. I know nothing about cars. Yeah, it's a lot of physics. I can see why they probably thought that would work. So the idea would be like, yeah, if we think of something that looks so dumb sometimes, it's inside the car. And it's so secretive, too. It's like when Apple does something secretive, it's because they don't want anyone else to copy them. When these cars companies, these teams, do something secretive, it's secretive until the moment it rolls out onto the track, and then if anyone sees it, it's out. Wow. There was a McLaren car that had a third brake pedal inside the car. And nobody knew what was going on until a photographer saw that on one side of the car during a corner, their brakes were hot and they were, like, glowing. And they were like that's kind of weird because the car is supposed to be accelerating out of this corner, but the brakes are still hot. What is going on? It's because this was a track that mostly turned left, and so they added a brake pedal in the McLaren that would break just the left side tires while they were turning so you could accelerate a little while still breaking the inside wheels, which let you turn faster. Genius. It was insane. And no one could tell how they did it until someone I forgot the story, but someone figured out, like, there was a McLaren car got left out after a race, and some guy took a picture of the inside of it and saw an extra pedal and was like, we got it. You're making me interested in this. You can do whatever you want to your car. Basically, there are rules, but yeah, within the rules, you must. Yeah. Dang it's more of an engineering competition. It is exactly what that is. Yeah. God, dang it, I'm trying so hard to avoid this. So, welcome to the cult, my friend. The last race is in Abu Dhabi this weekend. I'm sure you'll be watching along with the rest of us. Yeah. But the Vegas race was very cool, and that was, like, one of two races that happens in the US. Yeah, like two or three, I think. Austin and Miami. Okay. And I think this is the last one this year. Wow. Crazy cool. All right, well, fascinating stuff. Hopefully, that video goes out around this time. Yep. Watch it if you haven't already. Otherwise we know that Dua Lipa tried the fishing pro. Wait, did she? I don't think so. I don't know. Sorry. She interviewed Tim Cook. She interviewed Tim Cook. They talked about she might have just I bet you she tried it. There's no way that Tim Cook came and was like, what an incredible thing we've made, and then didn't let Dua Lipa try it. Wouldn't that be insane? No, I disagree. That would be the most Tim Cook thing ever. Yeah. That's 100% something he would do. Yeah. Just be like, I will be in your podcast to talk about it. Really? Can't try it. But they let me try it. I'm sure she could try it if she wanted to. I'm sure they would get her a briefing. My thing is, like, if Tim Cook were to come on this podcast and he flies to New Jersey and he sits down in these chairs, you think he's bringing a Vision Pro with him to let us try it? No, he would flex on us. He'd be like, I've been using Vision Pro for about a year now. And we'd be like, yeah, I know. We know. I've never shown a photo of me wearing it, ever. Yeah, you'll never see me wearing it. Yeah, for sure. Interesting. Okay, well, that was the totally nothing going on week in Technology this week. Thanks for tuning in. Thanks for tuning in. Hopefully, for the love of the sake of my eyeballs and my attention span, please do not do this again on Thursday night or Friday night, or we'll have to do trivia. Yes. I'm trying to keep you guys up to date with what's going on in technology. And when you do things on Thursdays and Fridays, we can't. It's tough. All right, we did our best. Let's get our trivia out of here. Trivia time. Trivia. I'm writing both my answers. I'm writing them both. Quick update on the score. Okay. Marquez with 13. Andrew with twelve. David with one. This is so dope. Carry the 112. Look, I knew what my job was before this. I also knew what Leica Camera stood for. Okay, question one. Whatever. One year before OpenAI was launched in 2015 for a total of eight days, sam Altman was the CEO of what popular social media company? Marquez already has his answers written. You already wrote it. Penciled down? Yeah. Okay, cool. David is there's only, like, two possible answers? There's many social media companies, but that have had leadership changes for eight days. What's your guess? I'm curious. Flip them and read, boys. I'm going to cover my boss. You're correct. It's reddit. It is reddit. Correct. Both of you. Got it. The only other option was Twitter, and that was not that long ago. Dang. Dang. I was hoping I'd slide ahead on this one. He also instated Steve Huffman after him. He did. Which was another fun fact. Yeah. All right. Continuing the Sam Altman party bus, train, caboose, airplane while building his first F One app. Yeah, f One car while building. Kind of. While building his first app, sam Altman reportedly worked so hard, he got what? Old timey disease. Marquez has already written his answer. He wrote, Just put the pen down. Yeah, I did. Wait, I forgot. I'm sorry. I forgot. I made multiple choice for this. You you did? Did. Do you need it? It's a gangrene. Okay. B, scurvy, c, consumption, or D, typhus. What is consumption? Consumption is an old timey word for tuberculosis. It's like what they used to call tuberculosis. Yeah. Scurvy. Scurvy. Both correct. Sam Altman suffered from scurvy. When you asked that question, for some reason, I just knew it, but I don't remember reading it. That's exactly how I felt. Really? Know where I learned that? Wow. In the depths. Why do we both know that? Did you just, like, whisper it to us one time? He only didn't whisper. When was the last time you guys used Chat GBT? Today. I put Marquez's f one script in chat GBT and I asked if it was accurate. Damn. What did it say? It just said, like, Here, I can read you what it said. Actually. Yeah, it's hilarious. Yeah, I was going to say that that's how he implanted somehow this knowledge into your brains. But this story is way. I actually asked it for an F One script, and that's what it spit at. Is this is there anything incorrect in this script? And I just posted Marquez's entire script and it said, the script you provided appears to be a detailed and enthusiastic introduction to Formula One. Likely intended for a video format, it covers a wide range of topics, including the sports, history, technical aspects, rules, and personal experiences with the sport. Wow. Without specific content on the accuracy requirements or the intended audience. Here are some general observations. One, it is very comprehensive. The script does an excellent job of covering various aspects, including this technical side, the history, roles, et cetera. Chat I like this sponsorship. Integration the mention of is smoothly integrated, linking their specific industry standard focus to F One's emphasis on safety and technology. This kind of integration is effective for sponsored Content personal Narration Style the script is written in a personal and relatable style, which is engaging for viewers. It narrates personal experiences, opinions, and makes it more engaging than a straightforward, factual presentation. This is wild. I know. Chat GPT. It didn't answer your question at all. No, but it's very nice to me. It has eight of these pillars, and then at the end it says in summary, the script is well constructed for an informative and engaging video on Formula One, especially for viewers who have a basic understanding of the sport and are interested in learning more. The integration of personal experiences and the explanation of technical aspects are particularly strong points, I'll take it. I don't think any of us in the studio could have given Marquez a better compliment. Yeah, I'm blushing over here. It also says that you had very good engagement and pacing. It said accuracy without cross referencing every fact. The script seems very accurate. Okay, good. Okay, perfect. You know what? Let's end it at that. That's perfect. That's all I need to hear. Chat GPT has officially endorsed this video, so go ahead and watch it when it comes out. Hopefully it's out soon. Hopefully it's not hallucinating. Yeah, hopefully it's totally right. Yeah. And that's enough. One car. Anyway, that'll be it for now. Hopefully no other news comes out. Thanks for watching. Catch you in the next one. In the next one. Peace. Bye. Wafer misproduced by Adam Alia and Ellis Revan. We are partnered with Box Media Podcast Network, and our intro after Maze Give is by Vane SIL. Whoops. Hey, that wasn't bad. That wasn't that bad. Come on. Did Dua Lipa get to try the Vision pro? No. What happened with the SpaceX rocket? It exploded. Exploded? How many miles of range does the polestar two have? 407. It's four oh 6.96. So seven. How many percent less energy does it consume? 15? Nine, anyway. Okay. I was thinking about chalula, I thought you were going to what percent? What percent of my data? Chalula. Thanks to Visible for supporting this episode. Visible offers a one line plan with unlimited 5G data on Verizon's Network for $25 a month, taxes and fees included. But visible isn't for everyone. For starters, you manage your plan, chat to customer service, and update your eSIM all on their app. And they don't bundle their plans with extras that cost you extra money. So if you want more than five G, a hotspot and unlimited data from your wireless plan, and you're willing to stand in line or sit on hold to pay top dollar, you want want to go to Visible.com to learn more. In times of traffic, your data may be temporarily slower than other traffic.